Telco Cloud Platform Upgrade Guide
Describes the high-level process to upgrade each component in Telco Cloud Platform.

About the Telco Cloud Platform Upgrade Guide
VMware Telco Cloud Platform™ is a cloud-native platform powered by field-proven VMware Telco Cloud Infrastructure™
coupled with automation. It provides a cloud-first approach that delivers operational agility for virtual, cloud-native 5G, and
Edge network functions. Telco Cloud Platform helps Communication Service Providers (CSPs) roll out 5G networks and
deploy 5G applications, solutions, and services more quickly across the multi-cloud infrastructure.
This Platform Upgrade Guide describes the process of upgrading Telco Cloud Platform to release 5.1 based on Telco
Cloud Platform Reference Architecture 5.1. Before upgrading the Telco Cloud solution components, ensure that you are
knowledgeable on the following:

 • Telco Cloud Platform architectural concepts and deployment scenarios. For more information, see the VMware Telco
   Cloud Reference Architecture Guide.
 • Telco Cloud Platform design considerations. For more information, see the VMware Telco Cloud Planning and
   Design Guide.
 • Upgrade procedures of the Telco Cloud Platform components. For more information, see the documentation of each
   component.
Intended Audience

This guide is intended for telecommunications solution architects, sales engineers, field consultants, advanced services
specialists, and customers who want to upgrade Telco Cloud Platform.

Telco Cloud Platform Architecture
VMware Telco Cloud Platform combines VMware Telco Cloud Infrastructure and VMware Telco Cloud Automation™.
VMware Telco Cloud Infrastructure is an evolution of VMware vCloud® NFV™. VMware Telco Cloud Automation contains
multi-domain orchestration and automation capability. VMware Telco Cloud Platform also embeds Tanzu Kubernetes Grid
that allows CSPs to build, manage, and run containerized workloads across private, telco, edge, and public clouds.
To manage massive data traffic, 5G is designed for a distributed architecture. The user plane and control plane are
separated, and the data center and network infrastructure are based on hierarchical multi-tiered layers. For more
information about each layer, see the Telco Cloud Reference Architecture Guide. For design considerations of
components in each layer, see Telco Cloud Planning and Design Guide.




                                                                                                                                  217
                                                                                                    VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1



Figure 41: Building Blocks of Telco Cloud Platform




Upgrade Overview
This section contains the following information about upgrading VMware Telco Cloud Platform:
• Supported upgrade paths
• Upgrade sequence

Supported Upgrade Paths
VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1 supports the following upgrade paths:

• Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.1 > 5.1
• Telco Cloud Platform 5.0 > 5.1

      IMPORTANT
      If you are using Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition, you can upgrade to Telco Cloud Platform 5.1
      in the following sequence:

       • Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition 3.0 > Telco Cloud Platform 5.1
       • Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition 2.7 > Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition
         3.0 > Telco Cloud Platform 5.1
       • Telco Cloud Infrastructure - Cloud Director Edition 2.2 > Telco Cloud Platform 5.1

         Important! When upgrading VMware Cloud Director from Telco Cloud Infrastructure 2.2, you must follow
         this upgrade sequence: 10.3.3.x > 10.4.3 > 10.6.1
The following table lists the source and target versions of the components to be upgraded:




                                                                                                                               218
                                                                                               VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1



    NOTE
    • To download these components, see the VMware Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.
    • Depending on whether you upgrade the CNF or VNF workload deployment, you can skip upgrading the
      components that are not relevant.
    • For the latest supported versions of these components, see the Telco Cloud Platform 5.1 Release Notes.

    IMPORTANT
    When moving to Telco Cloud Platform 5.1, upgrading Telco Cloud Automation (including Airgap and Harbor),
    Tanzu Kuberbetes Grid, and Avi Load Balancer is mandatory. For the remaining Telco Cloud Platform
    components , you can continue using the versions supported in Telco Cloud Platform 5.0 or 5.0.1, unless
    specific issue fixes are required.

Component                   Telco Cloud Platform 5.0     Telco Cloud Platform 5.0.1   Telco Cloud Platform 5.1

VMware ESXi™                8.0 U3                       8.0 U3                        8.0 U3
 VMware vCenter             8.0 U3                       8.0 U3                        8.0 U3
VMware vSAN™                8.0 U3                       8.0 U3                        8.0 U3
VMware Cloud Director™      10.6                         10.6.1                        10.6.1
VMware Aria Automation      8.18                         8.18.1                        8.18.1
Orchestrator™ (formerly
vRealize® Orchestrator™)
VMware NSX® (formerly       4.2                          4.2.1.3                       4.2.2.1
NSX-T™ Data Center)
VMware Telco Cloud          3.2                          3.3                           3.4
Automation™
VMware Telco Cloud          3.2                          3.3                           3.4
Automation Airgap Server
Harbor for CNFs             2.10.2                       2.10.2                        2.13.1
VMware Tanzu™               2.5.2                        2.5.2                         2.5.4
 Kubernetes Grid™
                             Note: 2.1.1 is also          Note: 2.1.1 is also
                            supported.                   supported.
VMware® Avi™ Load           30.2.1                       30.2.2                        30.2.3
Balancer (formerly VMware
NSX® Advanced Load
Balancer™)

 Avi Kubernetes Operator    1.12.2                       1.12.3                        1.13.3
(AKO)
VMware Aria Operations™     8.18                         8.18.3                        8.18.3
VMware Aria Operations™     8.18                         8.18.3                        8.18.3
 for Logs
VMware Aria Operations™     6.13                         6.13                          6.13
 for Networks
VMware vSphere®             9.0.2                        9.0.2                         9.0.2
 Replication™
VMware Live Site            9.0.2                        9.0.2                         9.0.2
Recovery™ (formerly
VMware Site Recovery
Manager™)


                                                                                                                          219
                                                                                                 VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1



      NOTE
      • AKO: To know the AKO version that is compatible with VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Grid and Kubernetes
        versions, see the AKO Compatibility Guide.
      • ESXi,vCenter, andvSAN: Additional patch versions such as 8.0 U3x are supported.
      • NSX: Additional patch versions such as 4.2.x are supported.
      • Aria Operations, Aria Operations for Logs, Aria Automation Orchestrator: Additional minor versions
        such as 8.18.x are supported.
      • Cloud Director: Additional patch versions such as 10.6.x are supported.
      • Aria Operations for Networks: Additional patch versions such as 6.13.x are supported.
      • vSphere Replication and Live Site Recovery: Additional patch versions such as 9.0.x are supported.


Upgrade Sequence
The Telco Cloud Platform components have interdependencies. You must follow a specific upgrade sequence to avoid
interoperability issues and for a minimal impact on running workloads.
Upgrade Sequence for CNF Workloads

The following figure illustrates the sequence in which you upgrade the components of Telco Cloud Platform:




                                                                                                                            220
                                                                                                 VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1




Upgrade Sequence for VNF Workloads

The following table lists the sequence in which you upgrade the components of Telco Cloud Infrastructure Cloud Director
Edition.




                                                                                                                            221
                                                                                                 VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1



Telco Cloud Infrastructure Management Pod                Resource and Edge Pod        Disaster Recovery Pod
- Cloud Director Edition
components
 VMware Cloud Director      1
 Cells and Database
 VMware vSphere             2                                                         4
 Replication
 VMware Live Site Recovery 3                                                          5
 NSX Edge -> host VIBs ->   6                            6
 Manager Upgrade
 VMware Aria Operations for 6
 Networks
 VMware vCenter™ Server/ 7                               11                           8
 VMware vSphere Update
 Manager
 VMware ESXi & VMware       10                           12                           9
 vSAN
                            Note: All the ESXi Servers Note: All the ESXi Servers Note: All the ESXi Servers
                            from the cluster will be     from the cluster will be     from the cluster will be
                            rebooted after this upgrade. rebooted after this upgrade. rebooted after this upgrade.
 VMware Aria Automation     13
 Orchestrator
 VMware Aria for Logs       13
 VMware Aria Operations     13
 VMware Avi Load Balancer 14

Upgrade Prerequisites
Ensure that the following prerequisites are met before upgrading VMware Telco Cloud Platform:
• Upgrade Checklist
• Snapshot and Backup Requirements

Upgrade Checklist
VMware Telco Cloud Platform follows strict product upgrade guidelines. You must adhere to the upgrade checklist before
performing the upgrade.

1. Ensure that the existing Telco Cloud solution deployed in your production environment is functional.
2. Ensure that the Telco Cloud Platform 5.1 bundle is downloaded and accessible.
3. Ensure that the production environment has enough storage capacity for backups and snapshots.
4. Take a snapshot and back up the management components of the Telco Cloud solution in the production
   environment.
5. Ensure that all the components of the Telco Cloud solution in the production environment are patched to the latest.
6. Based on the components identified in the Upgrade Sequence section, develop an upgrade plan for the Telco Cloud
   solution.

Snapshot and Backup Requirements
Before you upgrade the Telco Cloud solution components, ensure that you take snapshots and backups of all the
components as a prerequisite. If a component upgrade fails, you can use the snapshot and backup to restore the
component to its previous version.
                                                                                                                            222
                                                                                                  VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


 • VMware Cloud Director (cells and database):

   1. Take a snapshot of the VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
   2. Back up the embedded database of the VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see Backup and
      Restore of VMware Cloud Director Appliance.

 • vSphere Replication: Take a snapshot of the vSphere Replication Appliance VM. For instructions, see Creating a
   Snapshot of a VM.
 • Live Site Recovery: Take a snapshot of the Live Site Recovery virtual appliance and Back Up the Embedded
   vPostgres Database. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM and Back Up the Embedded Database.
 • vCenter:

    – Take a VM snapshot of the vCenter appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
    – Create a file-based backup of the vCenter appliance using the vCenter interface. For instructions, see File-
      Based Backup and Restore of vCenter Server.

 • NSX Manager: Back up the NSX Manager configuration. For instructions, see Backing Up and Restoring NSX
   Manager or Global Manager.
 • ESXi and vSAN: Back up the ESXi host configuration. For instructions, see KB2042141.
 • Aria Operations for Networks: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Networks deployment. For
   instructions, see KB55829 and Backup a VMware Aria Operations for Networks Deployment.
 • Aria Automation Orchestrator: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Automation Orchestrator deployment. For
   instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.

            CAUTION
            Aria Automation Orchestrator 8.x does not support memory snapshots. Before taking the snapshot,
            ensure that theSnapshot the virtual machine's memory option is deactivated.
 • Aria Operations for Logs: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Logs cluster nodes. For instructions, see
   Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
 • Aria Operations: Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations nodes. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a
   VM.
 • Telco Cloud Automation: Take a VM snapshot of the Telco Cloud Automation appliance. For instructions, see
   Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
 • Avi Load Balancer: Take a VM snapshot of Avi Load Balancer. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.

Upgrading Telco Cloud Platform
This section outlines the high-level steps to upgrade the required and optional components of VMware Telco Cloud
Platform. For detailed instructions, refer to the corresponding component documentation.


Upgrade VMware Cloud Director
This section describes how to upgrade VMware Cloud Director to 10.6.1.

• Verify that you have superuser credentials for the VMware Cloud Director Cells in your VMware Cloud Director
  server group.
• Verify that all ESXi hosts are enabled. Starting with VMware Cloud Director 10.3.2a, deactivated ESXi hosts are not
  supported.
• Back up the embedded database of the VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see Backup and Restore
  of VMware Cloud Director Appliance.


                                                                                                                             223
                                                                                                  VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


• Take a snapshot of the primary VMware Cloud Director appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a
  VM.

1. Upgrade the VMware Cloud Director appliance to 10.6.1.
   If the vCenter gets disconnected after upgrading VMware Cloud Director, reconnect vCenter from the UI as follows:

   1. Navigate to Resources > Infrastructure Resources > vCenter Server Instances.
   2. Select the vCenter Instance.
   3. Click Reconnect.

   For more information, see KB78885.

2. If Avi Load Balancer (formerly NSX Advanced Load Balancer) was deployed as part of VMware Cloud Director,
   upgrade Avi Load Balancer.

Upgrade vSphere Replication
To upgrade vSphere Replication, you must upgrade the required components in your vSphere Replication environment.

Take a snapshot of the vSphere Replication Appliance VM. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.

         CAUTION
         • Before upgrading the components on the recovery site, you must upgrade all components on the
           protected site.
         • During the upgrade, if there are issues that prevent you from accessing the protected site, use the
           recovery site to restore the protected site to its original state.


1. Upgrade vSphere Replication to 9.0.2.

Upgrade Live Site Recovery
When you upgrade VMware Live Site Recovery you must complete all the upgrade tasks on the protected site first and
then start the upgrade tasks on the recovery site.

• Take a snapshot of the Live Site Recovery virtual appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
• Follow the Prerequisites and Best Practices for Live Site Recovery Upgrade.
• Ensure that vSphere Replication is upgraded to version 9.0.2.

      NOTE
      During the Live Site Recovery upgrade, Live Site Recovery is unavailable until both vSphere Replication and
      Live Site Recovery are upgraded to version 9.0.2 on the protected and recovery sites.


1. Upgrade the Live Site Recovery virtual appliance to 9.0.2.

Upgrading Telco Cloud Automation
This section describes how to upgrade VMware Telco Cloud Automation to 3.4.

Telco Cloud Platform 5.1 supports the following Telco Cloud Automation upgrade paths:

 • Telco Cloud Automation 3.3 > 3.4
 • Telco Cloud Automation 3.2 > 3.4

                                                                                                                             224
                                                                                                      VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


Upgrade Telco Cloud Automation
This section describes how to upgrade VMware Telco Cloud Automation from Release 3.2 or 3.3 to 3.4.

• Ensure that components of Telco Cloud Automation 3.2 or 3.3 are activated.
• Back up the Telco Cloud Automation Manager (TCA-M) and Telco Cloud Automation Control Plane (TCA-CP)
  appliances. For instructions, see Backing Up and Restoring the System in the Telco Cloud Automation Deployment
  Guide.
• Download the Telco Cloud Automation 3.4 Upgrade bundle from the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads
  page.

1. If you have an existing Airgap server appliance in Telco Cloud Automation 3.2 or 3.3, upgrade it to Telco Cloud
   Automation 3.4. For instructions, see Upgrade Airgap Appliance.
2. Upgrade the TCA-M and TCA-CP appliances. For instructions, see Upgrading VMware Telco Cloud Automation.

1. Verify that you have successfully upgraded Telco Cloud Automation:

   a. Open the Telco Cloud Automation web interface.
   b. Verify that the dashboard displays the upgraded version number of Telco Cloud Automation.
   c. Verify that all the services are up and running by logging in to one of the following URLs:

       – https://<TCA Manager_FQDN>:9443
       – https://<TCA Control Plane_FQDN>:9443

2. Update the existing Harbor with ca.crt under TCA Manager > Infrastructure > Partner Systems.

          NOTE
          This step applies only to Harbor that is using a private CA-signed or self-signed certificate.
3. Verify and fix the alerts displayed on the TCA-M dashboard.



Upgrade Harbor for CNFs
Harbor is an open-source registry that stores Helm charts and container images required for CNF deployments. If you
deployed Harbor as a CNF through VMware Telco Cloud Automation, you can upgrade Harbor by using the Harbor for
CNFs package bundled with VMware Telco Cloud Platform.

      ATTENTION
      Upgrading Harbor through VMware Telco Cloud Automation is supported only if Harbor was originally deployed
      as a CNF using Telco Cloud Automation (starting with VMware Telco Cloud Platform 4.0.1). This upgrade is not
      supported for Harbor instances deployed outside of Telco Cloud Automation or on versions earlier than Telco
      Cloud Platform Release 4.0.1.
To download the Harbor for CNFs package, see Drivers & Tools on the Telco Cloud Platform 5.1 Advanced downloads
page.

1. Upgrade Harbor for CNFs to 2.13.1. For instructions, see the Harbor for CNFs Deployment and Configuration
   Guide.

Upgrade Avi Load Balancer
This section describes how to upgrade Avi Load Balancer to 30.2.3.


                                                                                                                                 225
                                                                                                   VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


1. Take a snapshot and backup of the AVI controllers.
2. Ensure that the Avi Load Balancer versions is compatible with Avi Kubernetes Operator (AKO). To identify the
   compatible versions, see the AKO Compatibility Matrix.

You can download Avi Load Balancer from the VMware Avi Load Balancer Downloads page.

1. Upgrade Avi Load Balancer. For instructions, see Upgrade Guide.


Avi Load Balancer is upgraded successfully, and applications are accessible.

Upgrade Avi Kubernetes Operator
This section describes how to upgrade Avi Kubernetes Operator (AKO) to 1.13.3.

1. Ensure that Avi Load Balancer is upgraded.
2. Ensure that the AKO version is compatible with the supported Kubernetes versions. For more information, see the
   AKO Compatibility Matrix.
3. (Applies only when upgrading AKO using Helm) If you are using an Airgap environment, ensure that the Helm charts
   are published in the local repository.

You can download AKO from the VMware Avi Load Balancer Downloads page.

1. If you installed AKO using Helm, upgrade AKO by using Helm. For instructions, see the Upgrade AKO section in
   Install AKO.

Upgrade Tanzu Kubernetes Clusters
VMware Telco Cloud Automation is integrated with VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Grid. To upgrade Tanzu Kubernetes Grid to
2.5.4, you must first upgrade the Tanzu Kubernetes management clusters and then the Tanzu Kubernetes workload
clusters.

If Tanzu Kubernetes clusters are deployed in an airgap environment, ensure that the airgap server is upgraded first. For
information about the Kubernetes upgrade compatibility for clusters, see:

• Upgrade Management Cluster Kubernetes Version.
• Upgrade Workload Cluster Kubernetes Version.

1. Download the latest version of the Kubernetes Cluster templates that you use to upgrade the Tanzu Kubernetes
   cluster.
   To download Tanzu Kubernetes Grid, go to the Drivers & Tools section on the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced
   downloads page.

2. Import the Kubernetes Cluster OVA into vSphere where the Tanzu Kubernetes cluster is located, and convert the
   OVA into a template.
3. Upgrade the Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster. For instructions, see Upgrade the Kubernetes Version for a
   Cluster Instance.
   Repeat Step 3 to upgrade each Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster sequentially.

4. Upgrade the Tanzu Kubernetes workload clusters. For instructions, see Upgrade Kubernetes Version for Workload
   Cluster Instance.
   Repeat Step 4 to upgrade each Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster.


                                                                                                                              226
                                                                                                   VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1




VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Clusters are upgraded successfully. All pods in the cluster are up and running.

Update the Kubernetes version in the cluster templates:

1. In the Telco Cloud Automation UI, navigate to Infrastructure > CaaS Infrastructure > Cluster templates.
2. Edit the templates that show compatibility errors.
3. Change the Kubernetes version to the latest one.



Upgrade NSX
You can upgrade VMware NSX to 4.2.2.1 using the upgrade coordinator. The upgrade coordinator resides in the NSX
Manager and orchestrates the NSX components upgrade inside ESXi hosts, NSX Edge cluster, and NSX management
plane. The upgrade process involves upgrading the components in the following sequence: VMware NSX Edges, ESXi
Hosts, and NSX management plane.

1. Perform the Pre-Upgrade Tasks.
2. Review the NSX Upgrade Checklist to track your work on the NSX upgrade process.
3. Prepare your infrastructure for the NSX upgrade.
4. Back up the existing NSX Manager.
5. Ensure that alerts displayed on the NSX Alerts page are fixed.

To download NSX, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.

1. Upgrade NSX to 4.2.2.1 .
    a) Upgrade the Upgrade Coordinator component.
    b) Upgrade NSX edges.
    c) Upgrade ESXi hosts.

               NOTE
               • In case of SR-IOV enabled worker nodes or if the worker nodes cannot be migrated to
                 another ESXi host, follow these steps and then proceed with ESXi upgrade in NSX.

                   1. Drain the pods of the worker node VMs
                   2. Manually power OFF the worker node VMs

                  For detailed instructions to manually power OFF the worker node VMs, see Steps 3 and 4
                  in Upgrade ESXi that Runs Tanzu Kubernetes Worker Node VMs Configured with SR-IOV.
                • In case of vSphere Lifecycle Manager-enabled Cluster, follow the instructions in Upgrade a
                  vSphere Lifecycle Manager-enabled Cluster.

     d) Upgrade NSX manager.

1. Perform the post-upgrade tasks to verify that the NSX upgrade is successful.
2. After the NSX upgrade is successful, verify that the clusters prepared for NSX are in the Success state:

   a. Log in to NSX Manager using Virtual IP (VIP) address.
   b. Navigate to System > Fabric > Node > Host Transport Nodes.
   c. Verify that all the clusters prepared for NSX are in Success state without any error.




                                                                                                                              227
                                                                                                 VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


   d. If there is an error on the ESXi hosts in the cluster, reconfigure the transport node by selecting the
      CONFIGURE NSX option on the cluster using the existing transport node profile. If there is any other upgrade
      issue, see Troubleshooting Upgrade Failures.

3. Update the NSX certificate in the TCA Appliance Manager UI by re-entering the NSX credentials and accepting the
   certificate.

   a. Log in to TCA Appliance Manager UI for TCA-CP.
   b. Click the Configuration tab.
   c. Select NSX.
   d. Click Edit and enter the NSX admin user password.
   e. Click Save.



Upgrade vCenter
This section describes how to upgrade vCenter to 8.0 U3x, where x represents any patch version on top of 8.0 U3.

• Log in to the vCenter Server Appliance Management Interface (VAMI) and verify that the statuses of all the vCenter
  services are healthy and started.
• Take a VM snapshot of the vCenter appliance. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
To download vCenter, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.

1. Upgrade the vCenter Appliance. For instructions, see Patching and Updating vCenter Server 8.0 Deployments.

          NOTE
          You can also update vCenter using Telco Cloud Automation. For instructions, see User Scenarios in
          Infrastructure Lifecycle Management Workflows.



vCenter is upgraded successfully and all services are up and running.

Upgrading ESXi
This section describes how to upgrade ESXi to 8.0 U3x, where x represents any patch version on top of 8.0 U3.

Follow the appropriate ESXi upgrade procedure based on the ESXi configuration:

 • Upgrade ESXi that runs Tanzu Kubernetes worker node VMs configured with SR-IOV.
 • Upgrade ESXi that runs VMs configured without SR-IOV.

When you upgrade an ESXi host, vSAN is upgraded automatically. After upgrading all the ESXi hosts, upgrade vSAN
cluster objects such as vSAN on-disk format and vSAN HCL DB.
Note: To download ESXi, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.
Upgrade ESXi that Runs Tanzu Kubernetes Worker Node VMs Configured with SR-IOV
If the ESXi server is running Tanzu Kubernetes Worker Node VMs configured with the SR-IOV network adapter or if the
worker nodes cannot be migrated to another ESXi host, manually power OFF the worker node VMs and then upgrade
ESXi.

1. For each ESXi host in the vSphere cluster, identify the list of Tanzu Kubernetes worker node VMs with SR-IOV
   network adapters.


                                                                                                                            228
                                                                                                   VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1




         NOTE
         Make a note of the names of the worker node VMs in the ESXi host.

2. SSH into TCA-CP VM where the corresponding Management Cluster is deployed.
3. For each worker node VM with the SR-IOV network adapter, identify the Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster that
   the worker node VM is part of and then drain the pods of the worker node VM:
     a) Log in to TCA-CP as an admin or root user.
     b) Open the TCA command line utility by running these commands in sequence:
        ccliPodName=`kubectl get pods -A | grep ccli | awk '{ print $2 }'`

        kubectl exec --stdin --tty $ccliPodName                 -n tca-cp-cn -- ccli-shell

     c) List all the Tanzu Kubernetes management clusters in the bootstrapper.
        ccli>>list mc

               NOTE
               Make a note of the index number of the management cluster (for example, MC1), where you
               want to look for the worker node VM.

     d) Go to the Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster MC1.
        ccli>>go <index number of the Tanzu Kubernetes management cluster>

     e) List the Tanzu Kubernetes workload clusters managed by the management cluster MC1.
        ccli>>list wc

               NOTE
               Make a note of the index number of the workload cluster (for example, WC1), where you want to
               look for the worker node VM.

     f) List the names and namespaces of all workload clusters managed by the management cluster MC1.
        kubectl get clusters -A

               NOTE
               Make a note of the name and namespace of the workload cluster WC1, where you want to look
               for the worker node VM.

     g) Go to the workload cluster WC1 managed by the management cluster MC1.
        ccli>>go <index number of Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster>

     h) List all the worker node VMs in the workload cluster WC1 and verify whether the list shows the worker node
        VM that you are looking for.
        ccli>>list nodes


         • If the worker node VM you are looking for is shown in the worker node list of the workload cluster
           WC1, continue to step 3g.
         • If the worker node VM you are looking for is not shown in the worker node list of the workload cluster
           WC1, repeat steps 3e and 3f for the remaining workload clusters managed by the management
           cluster MC1.

                                                                                                                              229
                                                                                                   VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


         • If the worker node VM you are looking for is not shown in the worker node list of all the workload
           clusters managed by the management cluster MC1, repeat steps 3b through 3f for the remaining
           management clusters.

     i) After identifying the workload cluster that the worker node VM is part of, pause the health check of the
        worker node VM by running the following commands in sequence:
        ccli>>list mc

        ccli>>go <index number of the management cluster that the worker node VM
        belongs to>

        kubectl patch cluster <cluster_name> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"paused":
        true}}' -n <cluster_namespace>
        cluster_name specifies the name of the workload cluster that the worker node VM belongs to.

        cluster_namespace specifies the namespace of the workload cluster that the worker node VM belongs to.

     j) Drain the pods of the worker node VM by running the following commands in sequence:
        ccli>>list wc

        ccli>>go <index number of the Tanzu Kubernetes workload cluster that the worker
        node VM belongs to>

        kubectl drain <worker_node_name> --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data --
        force
        worker_node_name specifies the name of the worker node VM.

     k) Repeat Steps 3a-3h for the remaining worker node VMs that use SR-IOV network adapters on the ESXi
         host.
4. Power OFF all the worker node VMs that use SR-IOV network adapters on the ESXi host.
5. In Lifecycle Manager, apply the baseline to the ESXi host and remediate. For more information, see Remediating
   ESXi Hosts Against vSphere Lifecycle Manager Baselines.

         NOTE
         If you are using vSphere LCM-enabled clusters, upgrade ESXi hosts by following the instructions in
         Upgrade a vSphere Lifecycle Manager-enabled Cluster.

6. After the ESXi host remediation is completed, power ON all the worker node VMs that use the SR-IOV network
   adapter on the ESXi host.
7. Uncordon each worker node VM by running the following commands in sequence:
   ccli>>list mc

   ccli>>go <index number of the management cluster>

   ccli>>list wc

   ccli>>go <index number of the workload cluster>

   kubectl get nodes

   kubectl uncordon <worker node name>

8. Resume the health check of each worker node VM:
   kubectl patch cluster <cluster_name> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"paused": false}}' -n
   <cluster_namespace>

                                                                                                                              230
                                                                                                  VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


   cluster_name specifies the name of the workload cluster that the worker node VM belongs to.

   cluster_namespace specifies the namespace of the workload cluster that the worker node VM belongs to.

9. Repeat Steps 1-8 for the remaining ESXi hosts in the vSphere cluster.


The ESXi host is successfully upgraded and rebooted.

Upgrade ESXi that Runs VMs Configured without SRIOV
If the ESXi server is running VMs without the SR-IOV network adapter, follow these steps to upgrade the ESXi server.

1. Use one of the following methods to upgrade the ESXi server. For more information, see the VMware ESXi
   Upgrade Guide.
    – GUI installer
    – Scripts
    – ESXCLI
    – vSphere Auto Deploy
    – vSphere Lifecycle Manager
   The ESXi host is successfully upgraded and rebooted.

Upgrade a vSAN Cluster
When you upgrade an ESXi host, vSAN is upgraded automatically. After upgrading all the ESXi hosts, upgrade the vSAN
cluster objects such as vSAN on-disk format and vSAN HCL DB.

      NOTE
      The disk format upgrade is optional. If you use a previous disk format version, your vSAN cluster continues to
      run smoothly. For best results, upgrade to the latest on-disk format that provides the complete feature set of
      vSAN. For more information, see About the Virtual SAN Disk Format.


1. (Optional) Upgrade the vSAN Disk Format Using vSphere Client.
   vSAN disks are upgraded successfully.

Verify that the vSAN cluster upgrade is successful.

Upgrade Aria Products
Upgrading VMware Aria products involves upgrading Aria Operations for Logs, Aria Operations, Aria Automation
Orchestrator, and Aria Operations for Networks.

• Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Logs cluster nodes. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a
  VM.
• Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations nodes. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a VM.
• Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Automation Orchestrator deployment. For instructions, see Creating a Snapshot of a
  VM.

           CAUTION
           Aria Automation Orchestrator 8.x does not support memory snapshots. Before taking the snapshot of
           the Aria Automation Orchestrator deployment, ensure that theSnapshot the virtual machine's memory
           option is deactivated.


                                                                                                                             231
                                                                                                   VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


• Take a VM snapshot of the Aria Operations for Networks deployment. For instructions, see KB55829 and Backup a
  VMware Aria Operations for Networks Deployment.
To download these components, see the Telco Cloud Platform Advanced downloads page.
For information about compatible versions for Aria upgrades, see the VMware Interoperability Matrix.

1. Upgrade Aria Operations for Logs from 8.18 to 8.18.3.

          NOTE
          • You must upgrade agents in the required VMs to capture data appropriately.

2. Upgrade Aria Operations from 8.18 to 8.18.3. For instructions, see the Aria Operations 8.18 Release Notes.

            CAUTION
            The NTP service does not start automatically following the Aria Operations upgrade, failing to restore
            the Aria Operations cluster to online. As a workaround, follow the instructions in KB93793 after the
            upgrade.

            For more information, see VMware Aria Operations Upgrade Prerequisites and VMware Aria
            Operations Software Updates.

3. Upgrade Aria Automation Orchestrator from 8.18 to 8.18.1. For instructions, see the Aria Automation Orchestrator
   Upgrade Guide.
4. Continue using Aria Operations for Networks 6.13.

Post-Upgrade Checklist
After upgrading Telco Cloud Platform, verify that all the components are working as expected.

Category                                Component                               Verify

 Physical Infrastructure                 Network                                 • All required VLANs are inter-
                                                                                   routable.
                                                                                 • ESXi physical uplinks are
                                                                                   functioning.
                                                                                 • MTU is configured properly on
                                                                                   physical switches.
                                                                                 • NTP, DHCP, and DNS servers are
                                                                                   accessible.
                                                                                 • External connectivity is working (if
                                                                                   external access is required).
                                                                                 • External Harbor server is reachable
                                                                                   (if used).
                                         Compute                                 • Open the host client on a browser
                                                                                   and verify that you can log in to the
                                                                                   host.
                                                                                 • Ensure that no warnings or alerts
                                                                                   are displayed on the Host Client UI.
                                         Storage                                 • vSAN is accessible and is in a
                                                                                   healthy state.
                                            Table continued on next page


                                                                                                                              232
                                                                                  VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


                                  Continued from previous page
Category                       Component                         Verify

NFVI & VIM                     Management and Resource vCenter   • Management and Resource
                               Servers                             vCenter Servers are accessible.
                                                                 • All cluster properties are correct.
                                                                 • All vSphere Distributed Switches
                                                                   are working properly.
                                                                 • All vSphere Distributed Switches
                                                                   are configured with the same MTU
                                                                   as their residing physical networks.
                                                                 • Ensure that the root password
                                                                   expiry is set as per your company
                                                                   policy.
                                                                 • Ensure that NTP is configured for
                                                                   all Telco Cloud Platform
                                                                   components.
                               VMware Cloud Director             • VMware Cloud Director is
                                                                   accessible using Avi Load Balancer
                                                                   and individual Cell FQDN.
                                                                 • VMware Cloud Director is
                                                                   successfully upgraded, registered
                                                                   with vCenter, and configured to
                                                                   work with NSX.
                               NSX                               • NSX Manager and its component
                                                                   connection status are up and in
                                                                   healthy status (green color).
                                                                 • No critical alerts or warnings
                                                                   displayed in the NSX UI.
                                                                 • All NSX edge nodes and ESXi
                                                                   hosts are connected and
                                                                   operational.
                                                                 • For ESXi and edge nodes, the
                                                                   password expiry setting for the
                                                                   admin, root, and audit users are
                                                                   aligned with your company policy.
                                                                 • Admin, root, and audit account
                                                                   policies comply with security
                                                                   standards.
                                                                 • TEP connectivity is validated.
                                                                 • Sufficient TEP IP pools (Edge and
                                                                   Host) are avaialble for future edge
                                                                   and host deployments.
Airgap Server                                                    • Airgap server is accessible, and its
                                                                   Harbor server is ready with all
                                                                   repositories and Helm charts.
Aria Automation Orchestrator                                     • Aria Automation Orchestrator is
                                                                   accessible, and you can run the
                                                                   workflows.
                                  Table continued on next page


                                                                                                             233
                                                                                      VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1


                                      Continued from previous page
Category                           Component                         Verify

Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster                                             • All pods in the Tanzu Kubernetes
                                                                       management and workload
                                                                       clusters must be up and running.
                                                                     • Users must be able to instantiate
                                                                       new Cloud-native Network
                                                                       Functions (CNFs).
                                                                     • Users must be able to deploy new
                                                                       Tanzu Kubernetes clusters.
                                                                     • Run diagnostics on Kubernetes
                                                                       clusters through TCA UI.
                                                                     • Verify and fix the alerts displayed
                                                                       on the TCA dashboard.
Operations Management              Aria Operations for Logs          • Aria Operations for Logs is
                                                                       accessible. The syslog data is
                                                                       actively collected and stored.
                                                                     • All the configured content pack
                                                                       components are accessible.
                                   Aria Operations                   • Aria Operations is accessible.
                                                                     • All configured management
                                                                       components are accessible.
                                   Aria Operations for Networks      • Aria Operations for Network is
                                                                       accessible. The network data is
                                                                       actively received and stored.
Business Continuity and Disaster   Live Site Recovery                • Live Site Recovery is successfully
Recovery                                                               upgraded on the protected (the
                                                                       Management cluster) and recovery
                                                                       sites, and the sites are paired.
                                                                     • The protected and recovery sites
                                                                       are connected, and the pair
                                                                       appears on the home page of the
                                                                       Live Site Recovery user interface.
                                                                     • Live Site Recovery from both the
                                                                       protected and recovery sites are
                                                                       accessible.
                                   vSphere Replication               • The vSphere Replication appliance
                                                                       is successfully upgraded on the
                                                                       protected (Management Pod) and
                                                                       recovery sites, and the sites are
                                                                       paired.
                                                                     • vSphere Replication servers are
                                                                       registered with respective vCenter
                                                                       Servers for both protected and
                                                                       recovery sites.
Delete Snapshots                   All management components         • Verify that all the components are
                                                                       working as expected.
                                                                     • Once verified, delete the snapshots
                                                                       that you took before the upgrade.


                                                                                                                 234
                                                                                                  VMware Telco Cloud Platform 5.1





